so
my name is wiki and i'm a co-founder of
code edit
and today i'm gonna present um nfts on
kusama
using ipfs and textile so
uh what's what's actually coded could it
have started as
a vue.js implementation of polka dot if
you ever used
polka dot blockchain you
have to had to use actually pocket.gs
and that's how we started and then after
finishing it
we moved to and
we moved to nfds and ongoing wave
so now we have like first multi language
nft gallery on kasama
using ipfs and
today i'm going to show you how to
create your nft actually it's really
easy
and what's non-fundable token exactly
it's
like unique item on on the blockchain
you can imagine non-fundable token as
something rare
as artwork card car
or whatever what's
what's actually nice or what's actually
unique is that you have it on chain
with additional metadata so you can
prove that you are
owner and that item is unique
and actually how we implemented it
usually in
ethereum you use smart contracts and erc
smart contract but unfortunately kusama
doesn't have
a smart contract so at the time
bruno scored introduced remark that app
it's unchanged standard for kusama nfts
and you actually write the transaction
inside the block
inside the blockchain
so how does it work it's as i mentioned
it's byte
on chain and it's actually super
expensive to
save everything on blockchain so imagine
posting
posting image or gif or even video on
on blockchain it had to be like super
super pricey so then actually
ipv has made sense to make it cheap
cheaper more effective and
verifiable so as you can see on the
picture down below
this is what the remarket looks like it
has its html encoded
text so we have like set of tools or
there is defined
set of tools how to parse it and how to
actually make make it work and
how we use ipfs we automatically upload
the
the lsds or the images and metadata
onto the ipfs we use multiple gateways
from us and europe use pinata
it's actually super easy to use it so
definitely worth to try
and how does the process look like you
actually
we fill out the form submit it
then we are waiting to auto pin metadata
and image
then user signed and send the
transaction to the blockchain
and then we are waiting for the
blockchain finalization because
you can decide to actually cancel this
the transaction so it's definitely worth
the wait
and then we are inserting into the
threaddb
3db is a textile known sql database
it's really fast and really smooth and
we are
we are using it to synchronize state
of the nfts imagine if you need
if you had to sync it but sink it by
yourself you can grab a coffee take a
have and still
it wouldn't be loaded so it's definitely
worth
for to have it synchronized also we
introduced something called emote so
it's emojis for nfp so you can
have you can have actually on chain
likes so it's wow
and also we have packs so if you use
for example twitter you have sort of
list
or user curated list so we have same
thing for
nfps so you can pick your
pick your favorite nfts and share it
with a friend
and does it maybe let's
look at the demo so we so we open nft
that connected
the set so actually i reload it
so this is how create looks like
we have two forms we have collections
and
nfps so usually every nfp
should belong to the collection but we
have the latest feature
called single nfp so it automatically
creates collection
and one single nfp so let's take a look
symbol as
ipfs then at token
it automatically calculates id serial
number and
collection it's automatically calculated
so ipfs now could be a nice name
you know ipf
so let's put the description i previous
meetup would be
fine and now we upload
image so hope i have some oh
cool ideas
and let's meet it
so now it's automatic as you see on the
console it's pinning the image
it will pin the metadata
shortly after i hope so
it's taking a bit longer
and then it will wait it will
[Music]
okay all right oh cool so
as you see this is this is the signer
something like metamask or it's polka
dot extension
so sign the transaction and now we are
waiting to finalize the block
as the standard as the remark standard
says we have to wait for the block or we
need the block
for nft to be valid so
we are waiting for
kusama finalization
okay it's finalized
oh cool so we got our
nsps and if we take a look on the
gallery now
oh yes it's here so it's ipfs so oh
it's here cool so
moreover as i mentioned before you can
you we have something called
emote so we can have he will likes it
for example this one and it's still like
on chain
so oh cool so we have
on chain light first of it first of its
kind
and also i can save it to the collection
and after that
i can show it to my friend we are
working on it so it's testing fraud
so i definitely
uh be happy if you try it by yourself
just
buy some kusama and try it it's
definitely cheaper and faster than
actual ethereum the whole collection
with five nfts was like
five dollars so it's nothing in opposed
to actual
gas fees and don't forget to follow us
on
credit on twitter and if you have
something online or something
what should be improved just shoot
medium on twitter and wiki wall
so thanks for joining
you